# Software-Security
Vulnerability Assessment Report and Practices for Secure Software Report

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis financial is a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. Artemis Financial has a RESTful web API and are looking for expertise to help protect their API from external threats. We are being asked to implemented the most current and effective software security.

# What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a   company’s overall wellbeing?
When identifying software security vulernabilities, I believe that I did well manually inspecticting the code for logical errors, and data structure errors. Identifying these types of coder errors is crucial to developing secure code. These types of errors can present vulernabilities to attacks by exposing infomration that is not intended to be seen by certain users (i.e password files, payment information, etc.) Software security can help the companies crediibility level with their user base. If a company has an unsecure platform and an attack occurs that causes the loss of private information, CPNI, etc. this could harm potentially millions of people. At the worst, the users migrate to platforms that are safer and the business's platform does not succeed. 

# What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
I think the most challenging part of working through the vulernability assesment is that I had a harm time correlating the results of the dependency check to the code base. I was unsure of what the results were pointing out. I understood that there were things integrated in the code base that needed to updated as a result of being listed as a vulernability, but also that there could be false-positives in the results as well. What I found helpful was learning that there were elements within the maven dependency file that I needed to review and ensure were present as there were listed in the vulnerability assesment. Understanding this, I was then able to weed out false positives. 

# How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
My approach to adding the needed layers of security was to start by assesment a process flow for vulernability assesment. This allowed me to target areas that were important for the client. The client needed to have secure communications, secure requests via web protocol, and authentication. I ensured that the API could only receive request via HTTPS allowing for certificate authentication, I then added the Secure Hash Algorithm - Message Digest to ensure that data strings could be hashed to aid in preventing attackers from intercepting and decrypting messages. After completing these actions, I ensured that no additional vulernabilities were identified in the dependency check.

# How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
To ensure the code and software application was functional and secure, I completed various maven builds such as test and compile and document the succesful results. I ran the code in a local enviroment, and tested the RESTful to ensure that the outputs matched the clients expectations. Once the code was refactored, a second dependency check was ran in order to ensure that no additional vulnerabilities were introduced.

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
Some resources, tools, and coding practices that I employed on this task that will help me in the future is things such as implementing java security packages in the ecplise IDE. I also thought the resources such as the Vulnerability Assesment Flow Process Diagram was really helpful in helping me focus on the areas that needed enhanced security for the client. Learning how to use spring and maven to build a RESTful API in the Java lanaguage is also super helpful and is something I am certain to use in a future task. Some coding practices I leanred was manually reviewing and insepcting code for vulernabilities. This skill is probably the most valuable as it is the basis for developing secure code in my opinion.

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
Of the skills, knowledge, and experience I have gained from this particular project I would share my overall knowledge of Secure Coding practices and why I believe they are important. I would talk about my ability to use industry standard tools such as spring, and eclipse. I would also talk about my skills in developing APIs in the Java language, using algorithms for securing data, generating certificates, and running and intepreting the results of a maven dependency check in order to reduce vulnerabilities.
